# Piezoelectricity-and-Piezoelectric-sensors
## Piezoelectricity
The accumulation of electric charge in solid materials in response to applied mechanical stress is called the piezoelectric effect or piezoelectricity, and those types of solid materials are called piezoelectric materials. Quartz, Berlinite (AlPO4), Sucrose (table sugar), Topaz, Tourmaline-group minerals, Lead titanate, etc. are some examples of naturally occurring piezoelectric materials. Some of the biological materials exhibiting piezoelectricity include silk, wood, enamel, tendon, etc. Barium titanate, Lead zirconate titanate, Potassium niobate, Sodium tungstate, Zinc oxide, etc., fall under the category of Synthetic ceramics that exhibit the piezoelectric effect. Piezoelectric effect is also exhibited by some polymers like polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF), polyvinylidene chloride (PDVC), etc. 
The piezoelectric effect is a result of the linear electromechanical interaction between the electrical and mechanical states in crystalline materials. The internal generation of mechanical strain resulting from an applied electric field is called the reverse piezoelectric effect. The materials which exhibit the piezoelectric effect also exhibit the reverse piezoelectric effect. 
We can say that a crystal can exhibit the piezoelectric effect if:
1. The crystal lattice should contain polar bonds. For example, Quartz exhibits the piezoelectric effect because of the oxygen-sulfur bond which is a polar bond.
2. The crystal structure should not have inversion symmetry/point symmetry. If point symmetry exists in the crystal then the center of charge will not be displaced even if there is some mechanical stress on the crystal, as a result, there would be no piezoelectric effect in this case.
Piezoelectricity has a number of useful applications. Piezoelectric materials are used in the detection and production of sound, high voltage power sources, sensors, actuators, piezoelectric motors, electronic frequency generation, etc. The piezoelectric material quartz is used as a time reference in Quartz watches. These materials also find some daily life applications such as acting as a source of ignition in lighters, for amplification pickups in some guitars.
